MDCB 2.13.0 RNs.mdx (#2703)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/mdcb.mdx

---

## 2.13 Release Notes

### 2.13.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx August 2026

#### Release Highlights

This release adds [Secrets Management](/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) to the Tyk MDCB configuration file for the first time, letting you reference values from external secrets stores in place of plain-text values.

MDCB now supports IAM-based authentication for Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis Cluster and Valkey, as an alternative to a static password.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The RPC connection pool is now configurable to limit both the maximum number of active connections from Data Plane Gateways and maximum connection idle time.

```

- `kv://<store>/<path>[#fragment]` for whole-value references.
- `$kv{<store>:<path>[#fragment]}` for embedding a reference inside a larger string.

Your `kv` configuration block can itself contain references, for example pulling a Vault token from an environment variable.

References are resolved once, at startup. Individual secrets stores can be marked as `required` and, if they cannot be reached or initialized, MDCB will fail to start with a clear error rather than starting with that store silently unavailable.

See [Secrets Management](/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) for full details.
</Accordion>
 
<Accordion title='Added GCP IAM authentication for Redis/Valkey'>
{/* TT-17611 */}
Tyk MDCB can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password. This is supported for Memorystore for Valkey and for Memorystore for Redis Cluster; legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password. The new authentication method is opt-in via configuration and is fully backward compatible with existing static-password setups.
</Accordion>

> </AccordionGroup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Accordion title='Configurable RPC connection pool'>
{/* TT-17967 */}
New configuration options have been introduced to manage the behavior of RPC connections from Data Plane Gateways.

- `max_connections` sets the maximum number of concurrent RPC connections MDCB will accept from Data Plane Gateways. 
- `max_connection_idle_time` sets the maximum time an idle RPC connection is kept open before MDCB closes it; this is configured with a readable duration (e.g. "5m").

For both settings, the default (`0` or omitted) means unlimited - this is the existing behavior to avoid any breaking change.
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>
```

</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

##### Added
 
<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Secrets Management'>
{/* TT-16268, TT-17699 */}
Tyk MDCB now supports Secrets Management, letting you reference values from external secrets stores: the Tyk config file, environment variables, local files (including Kubernetes-mounted secrets), Consul, Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, and GCP Secret Manager, in place of plain-text values in MDCB's configuration, using a consistent reference syntax:

- `kv://<store>/<path>[#fragment]` for whole-value references.
- `$kv{<store>:<path>[#fragment]}` for embedding a reference inside a larger string.

Your `kv` configuration block can itself contain references, for example pulling a Vault token from an environment variable.

References are resolved once, at startup. Individual secrets stores can be marked as `required` and, if they cannot be reached or initialized, MDCB will fail to start with a clear error rather than starting with that store silently unavailable.

See [Secrets Management](/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) for full details.
</Accordion>
 
<Accordion title='Added GCP IAM authentication for Redis/Valkey'>
{/* TT-17611 */}

> Tyk MDCB can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password. This is supported for Memorystore for Valkey and for Memorystore for Redis Cluster; legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password. The new authentication method is opt-in via configuration and is fully backward compatible with existing static-password setups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk MDCB can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password.

MDCB obtains a Google OAuth2 access token from the workload's identity, using Application Default Credentials (ADC) and authenticates with the Memorystore using this token.

This is supported for use with Memorystore for Valkey and Memorystore for Redis Cluster. The legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password.

The IAM configuration is set in the new `iam_auth` section of MDCB's storage config.
```

#### Downloads
- [Docker image v2.13.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-mdcb-docker/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v2.13.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-mdcb-docker:v2.13.0
    ```
#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v2.13.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Updated Golang version to 1.26'>
{/* TT-17868 */}
Tyk MDCB has been updated to build with Go 1.26, keeping the toolchain current with upstream Go security and performance updates.
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

##### Added
 
<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Secrets Management'>
{/* TT-16268, TT-17699 */}
Tyk MDCB now supports Secrets Management, letting you reference values from external secrets stores: the Tyk config file, environment variables, local files (including Kubernetes-mounted secrets), Consul, Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, and GCP Secret Manager, in place of plain-text values in MDCB's configuration, using a consistent reference syntax:

- `kv://<store>/<path>[#fragment]` for whole-value references.
- `$kv{<store>:<path>[#fragment]}` for embedding a reference inside a larger string.

> Your `kv` configuration block can itself contain references, for example pulling a Vault token from an environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secrets management configuration block (`kv`) can itself contain references, for example pulling a Vault token from an environment variable.
```

---

## 2.13 Release Notes

### 2.13.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx August 2026

#### Release Highlights

> This release adds support for referencing secrets and configuration values in the MDCB configuration file from an external secret store, using the same unified `kv://` / `$kv{}` syntax introduced across other Tyk components this wave. This release also extends GCP IAM-based authentication for Redis/Valkey to MDCB's storage connections, and updates the Go toolchain to Go 1.26. This release also addresses reported CVEs in dependent libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release adds [Secrets Management](/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) to the Tyk MDCB configuration file for the first time, letting you reference values from external secrets stores in place of plain-text values.

MDCB now supports IAM-based authentication for Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis Cluster and Valkey, as an alternative to a static password.
```

| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)  | 5.0.x, 6.0.x, 7.0.x | 4.4.x, 5.0.x, 6.0.x, 7.0.x | |
| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)         | 13.x - 17.x        | 13.x - 17.x            | |

Given the time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend customers verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
If you are upgrading to 2.13.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads
- [Docker image v2.13.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-mdcb-docker/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v2.13.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-mdcb-docker:v2.13.0
    ```
#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v2.13.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Updated Golang version to 1.26'>
{/* TT-17868 */}
Tyk MDCB has been updated to build with Go 1.26, keeping the toolchain current with upstream Go security and performance updates.
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

##### Added
 
<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Added a unified `kv://` syntax for referencing secrets and configuration values'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Secrets Management'>
```

{/* TT-16268, TT-17699 */}

> Tyk MDCB now supports the same unified syntax for referencing secrets and configuration values held in an external store that other Tyk components use: `kv://<store-name>/<path>` to substitute a whole value, or `$kv{<store-name>:<path>}` to substitute a value inline within a string. Declare one or more named secret stores in a new top-level `kv` section of the MDCB configuration file, then reference them from any string configuration value — for example, the analytics database connection string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk MDCB now supports Secrets Management, letting you reference values from external secrets stores - the Tyk config file, environment variables, local files (including Kubernetes-mounted secrets), Consul, Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, and GCP Secret Manager - in place of plain-text values in MDCB's configuration. See [Secrets Management](/docs/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) for full details.
```

> References are resolved once at startup, including nested configuration fields and references supplied via `TYK_MDCB_*` environment variables. If a referenced store is undefined or unreachable, MDCB fails to start with a clear error rather than starting with a missing or invalid value. Secret stores themselves can only be declared in the configuration file, not via environment variables. Configurations with no `kv` section behave exactly as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
References are resolved once, at startup. Individual secrets stores can be marked as `required` and, if they cannot be reached or initialized, MDCB will fail to start with a clear error rather than starting with that store silently unavailable.

See [Secrets Management](/docs/tyk-configuration-reference/kv-store) for full details.
```
